happy Monday I'm gonna warn you this a
block you know sometimes sort of the
show is evolved to the point where I
sometimes I do a long a block and it has
like a big arc and it lands with an
exclamation point this is one of those a
blocks this is one of those things that
you have not been otherwise hearing
about in the news but stick with me this
is worth it check this out okay let's
say you are a thief you've stolen a
bunch of money or or maybe you're a
crook and you have obtained a bunch of
money through illegal means through drug
dealing or fraud or prostitution or
something or you know let's be very
discreet about it let's say you have
somehow amassed a large amount of money
and you just don't want to talk about
where it came from in any of these
hypothetical circumstances I want you to
imagine though that you're not some
podunk thief crook shady bastard you're
big-time so you've got these ill-gotten
gains and it's not like a briefcase full
of money we're talking millions of
dollars tens of millions of dollars
hundreds of millions of dollars that you
have amassed through let's not talk
about it
means if you want to ever be able to
actually use that money and enjoy that
money you can't move it around just in
like you know bags full of loot once
you're talking about millions and tens
of millions and hundreds of millions of
dollars
there aren't enough briefcases and
duffle bags in the world for you to move
that kind of money around easily and if
you want to buy big rich guy stuff if
you want to buy like you know a private
island or a fleet of Ferraris or
something if you show up to pay with hay
bales full of $20 bills somebody's going
to notice that somebody's going to start
asking questions and if you decide to
deposit all your money in a bank they're
gonna want to know where that came from
and most banks under most laws in most
countries so if you've made lots and
lots and lots of money in some shady way
you need something to do with that money
that makes the money look sort of legit
just so you can use it and we often
think of that process of making illegal
or shady or secret money look legitimate
we often think of that it's like a mob
thing right like a like an organized
crime thing
money laundering but money laundering
can also be a bank thing if you know the
right kind of bank to go to a couple
weeks ago the big German Bank Deutsche
Bank they got fined six hundred and
thirty million dollars for money
laundering
apparently Deutsche Bank moved roughly
ten billion dollars out of Russia and
disguised the source of those funds made
it all look legit it's all tied to some
big Russian stock fraud scheme or
something but it's funny some of the
accounts that were involved in that ten
billion dollar money laundering scheme
some of those accounts were personally
held by relatives of Vladimir Putin and
by some of Vladimir Putin's closest and
oldest friends and when this
money-laundering scheme including their
accounts was exposed at Deutsche Bank
Russian authorities the Russian central
bank decided they needed to look into
this they were very concerned about this
scheme to siphon money out of Russia
without anybody knowing where it came
from the Russian central bank looked
into the scheme and they decided to find
Deutsche Bank 5000 dollars let me
mention again here that the fraud here
the money-laundering scheme here was ten
billion dollars but that's how much the
Russian central bank levied against them
as a fine luckily though this was not
just a Russia thing this scheme did
involve a deutsche bank office yes in
Moscow but also in New York and
interestingly also in Cyprus stick a pin
in that for a second we will come back
to Cyprus because of the New York
connection this giant multi-billion
dollar money-laundering scheme ended up
in the crosshairs of the Obama Justice
Department and yeah when the Russians
looked into it they may have decided to
only find Deutsche Bank $5,000 when
Loretta Lynch and the Obama Justice
Department looked into it they ended up
finding Deutsche Bank six hundred and
thirty million dollars needless to say
they took it slightly more seriously
than the Russians did for the people at
the top when these things happen though
it always seems to be sort of a soft
landing doesn't it I said the offices
involved in this Russian much Russian
money-laundering scheme were in Moscow
and New York and Cyprus when the last
chairman of Deutsche Bank needed a new
job
deutsche bank where he landed was very
softly as the chairman of the Bank of
Cyprus and Cyprus is a lovely place in a
lovely part of the world has a lot going
for it
but in global finance Cyprus is
basically the locking black briefcase
into which Russian oligarchs stuff their
ill-gotten gains before they handcuffed
that briefcase to a henchman somewhere
this is where Russian oligarchs launder
their money and so Deutsche Bank takes
part in this huge scam to launder
Russian money to basically smuggle
billions of dollars out of Russia
through its offices in Moscow and New
York and Cyprus the bank chairman from
Deutsche Bank then personally lends out
of bank in Cyprus it was appointed
chairman of that Bank by its two largest
shareholders one of the two largest
shareholders of that Bank of Cyprus is a
close personal friend and business
associate of Russian President Vladimir
Putin one of the other major investors
in that Bank this is where it gets good
is a Russian oligarch who they call the
king of fertilizer I know some of my
critics call me the queen of fertilizer
but they mean it differently but the
king of fertilizer guy that is where the
news comes home tonight for Americans
who are trying to make sense of our new
president in this new government that
he's putting in place and what really
explains their behavior when other
political norms don't seem to because
the king of fertilizer is just an
amazing story he's not the richest
person in Russia that would probably be
Vladimir Putin but he does hold the
title for what is believed to be the
most expensive divorce in modern history
as part of his divorce proceedings at
one point a Swiss bank awarded his wife
4.5 billion dollars as her divorce
settlement Wow
you know and a couples divorce would
usually be a private matter especially
one involving people we don't know from
other countries why do we care the
reason it turns out we all have to care
about it the reason we all have to know
about it now is because it's becoming
part of what we need to understand about
our current American presidency the
split up of this couple reportedly
started in 2007-2008 there about the
divorce
in the end wasn't finalized until 2015
but was very very lurid the seven-year
eight year period of that divorce it was
in the papers all the time as
international news had all these tabloid
aspects to it at one point she accused
him of having orgies on his yacht with
young girls and he accused her of
stealing jewelry he in fact had her
arrested as a jewel thief at some point
mostly what they thought about though
was dividing their money she thought
that she was entitled to a multi billion
dollar settlement in the divorce and
this is important she accused him of
hiding his money so she couldn't get
access to it she accused him
specifically of quote secret and
transferring assets in order to avoid
his obligations she basically said in
order to keep her from getting her hands
on what she believed was his money he
started putting his money in places she
couldn't get to it he started putting
his money in very large chunks in the
largest chunks he could into trusts in
foreign countries trusts that own stuff
or held assets anything to get his money
off his balance sheet so she couldn't
get it in the divorce and that's the
thing that that happens in ugly divorces
the world over but when you're the king
of fertilizer when that happens in your
divorce
it makes the Today Show this is 15
Central Park West in New York City it's
one of the most exclusive addresses and
home of the most expensive condo as you
mentioned with so many struggling to pay
rents and mortgages a college student
just bought it and it will not even be
her primary residence
it's a sweeping view that's breathtaking
and record-breaking for the new young
owner it's just a part-time pad the ten
room penthouse graced the cover of
Architectural Digest magazine just last
year it sits atop what's considered the
most expensive building in all of New
York outside a wraparound Terrace
overlooking Central Park
inside guests can tour the private
library but those guests could be
college students that's because
according to Forbes magazine the new
owner
the 22 year old daughter of a Russian
billionaire ekaterina reba lluvia was
studying at an undisclosed college in
america but she's a resident of monaco
price tag for her new part-time place 88
million bucks all paid for by daddy the
trend right now is you're seeing a lot
of money come from overseas to purchase
these super high-end properties it's a
great investment for them and a lot of
people think that it's safer than the
stock market in 2008 a Katarina's father
Demetria Reba Livia also bought this 33
thousand square-foot Florida estate from
Donald Trump he paid the Donald ninety
five million dollars in cash he may
reportedly lose it though in an ugly
divorce battle that could cost him half
his worth but the New York penthouse
should be safe it's in a Katarina's name
again this is a divorce that went
through six different venues
six different courts at one point there
was a 4.5 billion dollar judgment for
the wife four and a half billion dollars
she accused her husband of parking all
his money in overseas trusts that held
very expensive assets so she couldn't
get access to more of his money and
those trusts did things like hold very
very very expensive real estate all over
the world the Greek island where Jackie
Kennedy married Aristotle Onassis I
think it's called Scorpius he bought
that Island for 150 million dollars the
actor Will Smith had a nice house in
Hawaii he bought that for 20 million
dollars this guy apparently has an
adjoining compound of properties in the
Swiss Alps that he bought for a hundred
and thirty five million dollars and
locking up your money in assets like
this specifically to shield them from
your ex-wife who you hate it's probably
kind of a fun way to stick it to your
spouse and avoid the accountants and the
courts right but it also creates if you
think about it this incredible
opportunity for anybody who's in a
position to sell something really really
really expensive because this guy's
motivation is not to get a good deal on
any of these things right this guy is
trying to park as much of his Russian
money somewhere else as
much of his money as he can he needs it
tied up in real estate and these big
assets in other countries the bigger the
deal the bigger the price tag the better
I mean you want to be the guy who owns
the Greek private island when the king
of fertilizer starts looking for islands
to buy to shelter his money from his
wife
right you want to be the real estate
broker in New York City he's looking to
sell the single most expensive private
apartment in New York City when that guy
comes around looking to spend as much
money as he possibly can the more money
the better but for the right kind of
person for the right kind of seller this
guy the king of fertilizer Dimitri Rio
belif he is just a walking cash register
if you have the right kind of thing to
sell him behold La Maison dilemma tea it
my only thing worse than my Russian
pronunciation is my French pronunciation
but Maison dilemma tea it means the
house of friendship house of Amity
remember the Amityville Horror the house
of Amity this house was built in 2001 by
a zillionaire Americans leaner who moved
from New England down to Palm Beach
Florida but then sadly he promptly went
bankrupt while he was still Richie Rich
before he went bankrupt he did build
this astounding house it is tens of
thousands of square feet it has 22
bathrooms
think about that 22 people can go all at
the same time Oh watch out if they all
flush at the same time kaboom
this zillionaire guy built this
incredibly gaudy gigantic mansion in
Palm Beach Florida in 2001 by 2004 it
had been seized by the Bankruptcy Court
and he and his wife were on their way to
facing tax evasion charges but this
house was put up on auction in
conjunction with the bankruptcy in 2004
the person who bought the house on
auction is now President Donald Trump he
bought it for forty million dollars and
then that big house in Palm Beach had
sat empty for two years and it became
sort of this local legend in Palm Beach
real estate because the house was
thought of as locally it was thought of
as kind of a monstrosity it was
frequently described as gauche as rokoko
it had like
fake art everywhere you know are
inspired by real painters this is sort
of copies of stuff painted on the walls
parts of the interior of the house for
cobblestone which nobody could quite
explain it also reportedly had a
terrible mold problem but Donald Trump
bought it for forty million dollars in
it's sat empty for two years and then in
2008 along comes Demetri real Belov
the king of fertilizer right going
through the mother of all divorces
needing the biggest ticket items you
could possibly imagine his ways to
shelter his money from his darn wife the
bigger the price tag the better I'm
buying Greek islands I'm buying the most
expensive apartments in New York City I
need places to put my money and Dimitri
Rio Belov turns around in 2008 and pays
Donald Trump 100 million dollars for
that house two and a half times what
Trump had bought it for two years
earlier why did this guy spend a hundred
million dollars on that property
I don't know we do know that he never
moved in in fact some reporting on the
sale indicates that he never once set
foot in it and it's now being torn down
Trump and rubble of have commented
publicly that they never dealt with each
other directly throughout the whole
period of that sale they never met they
only worked through intermediaries which
is interesting for a financial
transaction that big right that was the
single highest price paid for a single
American house at the time of that
transaction that record actually may
still hold that may be the single most
expensive house transaction ever in the
United States they never met they only
went through intermediaries who were the
intermediaries well the king of
fertilizer dimitri rio bluff who
basically popped sixty million dollars
neatly into Donald Trump's pocket in
this transaction he doesn't have much of
an American profile but he does have one
very important American connection
remember I said that he's one of the
major shareholders and that Bank of
Cyprus the chairman of that Bank as I
said is the former chairman of Deutsche
Bank which just paid a six hundred and
thirty million dollar fine for
laundering illegal Russian
money he was installed as chairman at
the Bank of Cyprus by the two vice
chairman of that Bank one of the vice
chairman of that Bank is as I mentioned
Vladimir Putin's close associate but the
other vice chairman of that Bank is an
American the American is in fact the
single largest shareholder in that Bank
that Bank that includes the guy whose
firm was just done for the Russian money
laundering and Vladimir Putin's very
close associate I should tell you the
vice chairman who that guy replaced was
not only also a close lad amir putin
associate he was a guy who Putin was in
the KGB with before he became Vladimir
Putin this bank is also owned in part by
the Russian king of fertilizer who did
this inexplicable deal that Donald Trump
miraculously stumbled into that netted
him 60 million dollars for doing
basically nothing there is one American
who is in the middle of that Bank who
was the single largest shareholder
shareholder in that Bank there's one
American in that Bank and tonight that
American was just confirmed as our
nation's new Secretary of Commerce his
name is Wilbur Ross he's an American
businessman longtime friend of Donald
Trump how much experience in
international banking but inexplicably
ended up the majority shareholder in a
Cypriot bank with all sorts of ties to
Vladimir Putin and to a Russian oligarch
who somehow through some intermediary we
don't know who ended up stuffing 60
million dollars into Donald Trump's
wallet paying him a hundred million
dollars for something that Trump had
just bought for 40 million dollars and
that the oligarch apparently had no
personal interest in whatsoever he never
even bothered living in it and maybe
never even visited but Trump in that
oligarch no-questions-asked they never
met no connection whatsoever except
through Wilbur Ross Donald Trump's old
old friend who will be sworn into the
cabinet tomorrow as Commerce Secretary
and there's basically two things to know
about this story going forward one in
terms of explaining this presidency the
other one in terms of what happens next
in our politics I mean in terms of
explaining this presidency you should
know that at the time this magical deal
emerged out of nowhere that put tens of
millions of dollars in Donald Trump's
pocket at that time Donald Trump was
financially having a very difficult time
it is a matter of public record that he
was fighting very hard among other
things to avoid paying off a big loan
that he had with Deutsche Bank which
Bank needs the money that means Trump
needs the money that means Trump needs
to get the money so this mysterious
windfall infusion of cash from the
Russian guy came at just the right time
for now President Trump every
investigative reporter in the country
right now is trying to figure out
whether there is some reason that our
new president appears to feel so
beholden to Russia and to Vladimir Putin
well this part here this is not just
like a loose thread this is like a rope
ladder hanging down from the ceiling
begging people to crawl up this and look
around that's that's one thing to know
about about this story the other thing
to know about this story has to do with
what's going to happen next in the
administration we're going to talk later
later on this hour about what's
happening with the investigation or lack
thereof and to trump and his Russia ties
but meanwhile he is slowly hercule
jerkily staffing up his administration
this weekend his nominee to be Secretary
of the Navy dropped out that follows a
similar decision by his nominee to be
Secretary of the army who also dropped
out that follows the firing of a
national security adviser and then his
next two picks to be national security
adviser reportedly turning him down we
also learned this weekend that Michele
Flournoy was just asked by Secretary of
Defense Jim mattis if she would please
become his deputy at the Pentagon
Michele Flournoy tells politico.com
she said no she turned down mattis
at the Pentagon because she didn't feel
like in good faith she could join the
Trump administration they're having
trouble staffing up in a lot of ways but
for whatever reason Wilbur Ross tonight
got through that may not end up being a
political blessing to this
administration because now Wilbur Ross
with all of his unexplained mysterious
Russia ties now
is a cabinet secretary now he's
Secretary of Commerce and any scandal
that ends up fixing to him on this
subject will affix to the administration
throughout the time that he is in office
and the big problem with Wilbur Ross is
that the scandal about him and Russia
may ultimately be a scandal about Donald
Trump and Russia and we're going to be
joined tonight by David Remnick the
editor of The New Yorker who is just by
lined a mega story on Trump and Putin
among the news that Remnick has turned
up is this remember that 35 page dossier
with all the salacious details
supposedly about Donald Trump that
unconfirmed dossier of dirt that Russian
supposedly had on Trump well here's the
New Yorker quote the 35 page dossier
included claims about Trump's behavior
during a 2013 trip to Moscow
the dossier concluded that Russia had
personal and financial material on Trump
that could be used as blackmail and said
that the Russians had been cultivating
supporting and assisting Trump for years
according to current and former
government officials print details in
the dossier generated skepticism among
some members of the intelligence
community but in the weeks that followed
they confirmed some of his less
explosive claims relating to
conversations with foreign nationals one
intelligence official tells the New York
Times quote they are continuing to chase
down stuff from the dossier and at its
core a lot of it is bearing out and now
here's what is shooting up right now
like a flare in the night sky quote some
officials believe that one reason the
Russians compiled information on Trump
during his 2013 trip was that he was
meeting with Russian oligarchs who might
be stashing money abroad and that
according to some officials is why
Russia was compiling dirt on Trump
because he was helping him find places
to put their money Wilbur Ross was
confirmed as Commerce Secretary tonight
David Remnick from The New Yorker joins
us in just a moment and I feel like I'm
finally starting to understand this
hey there I'm Chris Hayes from MSNBC
thanks for watching MSNBC on YouTube if
you want to keep up to date with the
videos we're putting out you can click
subscribe just below me or click over on
this list to see lots of other great
videos